To fully leverage the power of Spark,
you'll need to go beyond your local computer and run
a distributed cluster made up of multiple machines.
This is usually done by renting computers from
a cloud provider like Amazon Web Services or AWS for short.
Spinning up multiple machines,
then downloading and installing Spark and all of its dependencies on each of them,
and finally configuring them to work together can be a bit tricky.
If you'd like to see how to do this manually,
we've included a guide to give you a sense of the process.
If you have to do this by hand for several machines,
you probably make a few mistakes,
and even if you don't, you'll probably find it very tedious.
Plus if you want to update anything,
you'll have to do it several times.
Fortunately, AWS offers an easier option called Elastic MapReduce or EMR for short.
EMR is a service that provides you EC2 instances with
many big data technologies like Hadoop and Spark already installed and configured.
Start off by creating an AWS account if you haven't already and login to the AWS console.
Before we start using the EMR,
we'll need to create an SSH key pair to securely connect to the cluster we'll create.
To do this, go to the EC2 menu which you'll find under Services,
and then find key pairs on the left.
You may already have some key pairs,
but let's create a new key pair for our Spark cluster and give it an intuitive name.
A pem file should automatically download onto your local machine.
For me, it's in my downloads folder.
Make sure you know where this key file is,
you'll need it in a few minutes.
This is one half of the key pair and Amazon will put the other on the cluster.
Only when you have both keys together will you be able to connect to the machine.
Next, we'll go to the EMR Service.
Give your cluster name and enable logging so we can track any errors.
Keep the default S3 location,
which we'll talk about later in this lesson.
Make sure you use the cluster setting which will create a long-term cluster for you.
The step execution option will automatically
tear down your cluster once your Spark job finishes.
That's cost-effective if you've already perfected your Spark job for your data.
But since we'll be exploring and developing,
we'll use a long-term cluster.
Select EMR version 5.20.0 and make sure to select the option with Spark 2.4.0 included.
This comes with the Hadoop Distributed File System or HDFS for short already installed.
We'll discuss this later in this lesson.
EMR operates spark in YARN cluster mode,
which has a few small differences from the simpler Standalone mode.
But also offers a few extra features.
This EMR version also comes with a monitoring tool
called Ganglia and Zeppelin for Scala notebooks.
But we won't use either of these in this course.
For this course, we'll use M5 extra larges.
Let's quickly go over the instance types and AWS.
The M indicates the multipurpose family,
as opposed to the R family that is optimized for
RAM or the C family that is optimized for CPU.
There's a family for each of the major components we discussed in lesson 1,
so you can optimize for your use case once you understand it.
However, it's generally best to start with the multipurpose M family.
So we'll use M for this cluster.
With EMR, it's always easier to change this later.
The five indicates the fifth generation of hardware from
Amazon which is usually cheaper and more powerful than previous generations.
The fifth generation automatically comes with SSD storage.
Lastly, the size of the instance,
in this case extra large,
indicates the overall hardware quality.
A size of small will have less CPU,
memory, storage, and networking than an extra large,
but the rough ratios between the hardware components stay the same within a given family.
Instances can go as low as nano and as high as eight extra large for some families.
You can check out the resources in the classroom to learn
the specific hardware specifications and brands that these instances correspond to.
EMR refers to the worker nodes as core nodes since they'll store
data on HDFS as well as doing work on the data.
Pricing for these nodes is about $0.05 per hour,
so the whole cluster will be roughly $0.20 per hour.
This is cheap enough that we can learn a lot on a reasonable budget.
Also with EMR, you can easily turn off your cluster when you're not using it.
So you only pay for them when you need them.
EMR has a few small costs that come with it like
S3 storage for your logs and Jupyter notebooks.
But it's well worth these small extra charges.
If you want to learn more about selecting the right machines to rent,
there are details included and links in the classroom.
But most people will stick with the defaults.
Make sure you pick the SSH key you made earlier,
you'll need to do this to be able to connect to your cluster.
You can leave all the other options on the defaults.